Oh, God, this is like a detailed question.
But my driver always tells me,
"Vijay sir had come here."
Oh, God, this is like a detailed question.
So, I had this very...
like education is essential.
Like, if somebody would come over,
I would...
"Oh, she dances really well.
Dance for them."
There's some time
between the two performances.
But Kathak and all is, like,
a little classical, strict.
And then, I was very studious.
If there was a maths exam...
"What's going on in life?" All of that.
She would be like, "Solve this correctly."
I got a good amount of spankings
from my mom.
-Were you spanked?
-Yes, of course, I was.
Like, running around the table,
then getting cornered in the balcony,
and then getting a slap has happened.
Properly. Slaps and all, properly.
"What is the point
of studying so much?" You know?
Because it was a thing,
like, "Why do you need to do this?"
"Teach me how to dance."
And I'm like, "It's too late now.
I can't teach you."
And she was like,
"Engineering is quite tough."
But okay,
maybe I'll make a software tomorrow.
You know, I would lose my appetite.
There would just be one glass of juice.
Take some time, right? Two-three podcasts.
It would increase
if I was off for ten days.
Sometimes it's destiny, right?
It doesn't work out.
"Yeah, okay.
I'm very satisfied with my performance.
It doesn't matter
if people don't like or validate it."
Like, "You know, this is a big...
"Okay, this doesn't work for me."
Or, "I don't want to do this."
I can make a choice
that I don't want to do this.
My parents never made me feel
that there was no money.
"Okay, just let me know how much..."
-"Dad, how much do I have?"
-"Oh, that's all there is?" You know?
I assimilate wherever I go.
What are we talking about?
We came here for a different conversation.
And where is this Mr. India personality?
-You should have worn a Mr. India T-shirt.
-Why?
Because we had Mr. India
sitting with us till now.
Yeah.
Fifteen minutes. From Chandigarh.
This was right in front of me.
He asks a lot of questions.
I mean...
Even, "Why did you eat this today?"
We're discussing college.
Then we shall get to transition
from college to...
What somebody else has told you
that this had happened.
I feel like sometimes, like...
it's like memory is full.
Okay, great. Not a problem.
Have you ever felt,
because of your height,
"I should slouch a bit?"
-No.
-It has happened to me.
Slouching, no... Even today...
You started with college, then...
Which school were you from?
-Which college?
-Yes, yes, yes? What?
-What?
-Nothing. Which college?
There have been many such instances.
In terms of roles also.
You know that, "I have no idea
how I am going to pull this off. I..."
Since childhood, it's been there
that I need to do well.
"Why did you not answer
for these three marks out of 100?"
That has happened, too.
So that pressure of needing to do well
has always been there.
"This is what you should do."
When you were five years old...
My sister also had to give tests.
Not that she didn't.
But even if she didn't...
I would eat while watching TV
and take two hours to finish.
And she would be like,
"Go eat outside at the dining table."
My sister would go out and put the roti
under the shelf and be like, "I'm done."
Okay.
What does that mean?
No, this is not...
For me, honestly...
But he's saying that is...
That's basic. That is necessary.
Other than that,
you talk about the deeper things.
That just leaves luck.
So tell me what is the "different"?
What is the "different"
in your "different type of hard work"?
"Oh, she asks a lot of questions."
Hmm. Me too.
Yeah, everybody knows that.
It's so evident.
"But she asks too many questions."
"She has a lot of queries."
"How else can I do this?"
You know? "Should I do it this way?"
"Oh, she asks too many questions."
Firstly, if a woman is asking,
it's like, "She asks too many questions."
Were you like this at school, too?
Asking questions?
I was. If I didn't understand...
I have a problem till I completely
understand something.
-You will keep asking.
-I need to understand.
Memorizing was just in certain subjects.
The ones that didn't have
a lot to be understood, you know.
Chemistry sometimes can be
a bit of memorizing.
And in my head, I was like,
"I can do it for the sake of it."
I firstly feel people, as in 3 Idiots
they say, have "herd mentality."
"This is not your cup of tea.
This is a world for people
who are thick-skinned," and all.
Yeah, so, on campus...
I'm sure you're also curious
about what cricket is like.
I mean, this hand-eye coordination,
from what I understand,
is a natural ability, not everyone...
Like, some can see the slow ball,
some can see the fast one.
There must be facilities for that now.
But what's natural...
If you don't have music in you, you don't.
How much can you teach someone?
It's a mental thing.
Profitable is a separate thing, but...
"We did 100 Cr. Wow, we did 100 Cr!"
Used to be a big deal.
Now 100 Cr is also not a big deal.
There was a phase where
the ones who adapted, progressed.
Those who didn't were left behind.
This phase that we had when...
Everyone could see it. It was not working.
After that, I think,
a lot of people had to change.
And the ones who did, they survived.
I guess my choice of words was wrong.
They are thriving, too.
No at all.
You talk about the stock market,
I'll defend it.
Exactly. I think,
in a creative field... So...
Spotify has given us
a lot of data on music.
And a lot... All the big labels
have data analysts set up.
Like, "This certain genre of music
can go this far.
"This is when the drop should come in.
"This is how long the build-up should be.
"This is how long the song should be."
I don't think it will be successful.
The beauty that it is,
cannot be quantized.
And that beauty...
in film and music, in my opinion,
-Is very beautiful.
-And Cricket.
I'm anyway playing cricket
all days in the by-lanes.
"Okay, great. Finally, I have come..."
Then you pursue...
-Yes.
-You...
We just got to know this.
This is a question
worth Rs. 3,20,000 on KBC.
Isn't it?
I'm blushing.
That's what I think.
It is what it is now.
"KL Rahul, the angry superstar",
whatever that may be.
In the South,
your father's name is added first.
-Yeah.
-Before your name.
It's the name of the village...
I haven't met a single person
from Mangalore whom I have not liked.
We are both from there, too.
I wait in line.
So, if I get the urge to...
You know what they say,
if it has come to mind, you should go.
So, if it has crossed your mind,
you should go.
It's a constant battle
that goes on, mentally.
Not yesterday, the day before yesterday.
I mean, it had never happened to me...
A straight yorker.
Okay, I was...
I mean, small things,
nothing to get me expelled from school.
First, they support you,
when you're the underdog.
They enjoy it. "Did you see that?"
"Did you see that? The movie flopped."
-Negativity or some...
-You're being
-really safe, aren't you?
-This is how it is.
You are absolutely right.
How can it affect me
if I don't even know about it?
"Okay, this is where I find ignorance.
"This is where I find bliss."
There, I just feel like...
But how long can you stay there?
-You can't stay.
-You can't, right?
Wow, you just flipped it.
Not like, "I'm getting
social media validation, so, great."
Basically, you cannot say "hard work".
What else can I say?
This answer is taken.
Okay, we'll come back to Rahul.
Yes?
And let me tell you,
I have heard so many of your songs.
This extra, for me...
I don't want this complementary praise
alongside him.
-So now...
-Favorite?
I go to him just for wisdom.
At that point...
So, based on his movie, Badshah...
Before this, I used to rap in English,
and my name used to be Cool Equal.
-What was it?
Once, when I was being introduced
on the stage,
I was asked, "What should we call you?"
I said, "Cool Equal."
And when I told my cousins...
They are my mood...
They are my sounding boards.
I do my audience-testing there.
I mean, the amount I have...
Yes, of course.
Because, for me,
from what I have seen till now,
if you are real, you become cool.
No, dude. Who told you that?
I mean, if you are a good person.
I don't know if I am cool or not.
Did you always have that cool factor?
No, it developed...
If you were there,
what would you wish for?
So that is a big... a huge driving factor.
And sometimes, because of adrenaline,
you end up doing things
which can turn out to be something good,
or maybe something
that isn't right for that show.
That is very... I think that is very...
This...
is very overwhelming.
Sometimes I laugh too much.
Sometimes I tear up
if someone sings really beautifully.
A great scene, comedy... No, not comedy,
but something else,
you watch it and you cry.
And your emotions cannot be contained.
Start from your childhood.
What?
What happened in life?
Where were you born?
-Parents, siblings, everything.
-In Delhi, I was...
-All questions in one, like that.
-Everything.
My father was in a government job.
-Mother was a teacher.
-What did he do for the government?
In the Delhi Electricity Board.
I would ask my father, like,
"Your colleague's sons have..."
So, Mom was a teacher.
She's retired. They are both retired.
Everyone's mother here is a teacher.
Then college.
And then I went
to Punjab Engineering College
from where I did my engineering, civil.
What did you listen to?
We had a lot of Punjabi music
playing at home.
Gurdas Maan sir.
So that's when I found Eminem, Tupac.
He first introduced me
to the Backstreet Boys.
They had a song that went...
Get Down, Get Down.
He gave it to me saying,
"Listen to 'Quit Playing Games'."
But I stopped at "Get Down"
because there's a small rap that comes in.
Then, from there...
There, I studied, did my engineering.
And...
There I got a taste of it.
I mean, Chandigarh...
It's a beautiful place
when it comes to music, Punjab.
Because they are directly
in touch with the West.
It's a direct link.
You don't go to Delhi from Chandigarh.
You go to Canada or USA.
So, the amalgamation of cultures
that present there
is very intimidating.
If one person goes, everyone else follows.
You have money there.
They feel there are more opportunities.
I mean, for me... Personally, I feel
that if you want to do something,
you can do it anywhere.
That's how I feel.
You can do anything, anywhere,
whenever you want, if you wish to.
So, if they see an example
of someone who has made a lot of money...
It pulls you in.
I know a bunch of people
who got inspired by this and failed.
I mean, they feel that...
Somehow, in some way,
they get this perception
that doing this is very easy.
When I started a business...
I used to feel it was very easy.
A restaurant, for example.
It's the worst thing.
-It's difficult, not bad.
-Yeah, I mean...
-People come in after seeing them.
-Yeah.
And you...
When you...
Yeah.
This... "Yeah, might as well do it.
It will work out."
My podcast is successful today.
And now let me find where to...
-There's none anywhere here.
-It is here.
I get affected by the evil eye, very fast.
If I were to ask you to invest,
let's say...
two and a half to three crores,
blindly on a business...
-Two and a half to three crores.
-Yeah.
How much?
Honestly, like...
But I am not doing anything today.
You are in a different zone now.
It's difficult.
And in India...
Exactly. I have a question.
Sorry, one...
I had been waiting for this.
These people are talking about
their childhood, I'm not interested.
Not like Sabyasachi.
Come on, bro.
No, I mean, I was toying around.
He has been doing it for 15 years.
It's not possible here.
Yeah, so that was...
I have one more question.
"This won't work."
Okay, you tell me.
What else? Then music happened.
Then my song became popular.
But there must be a story behind it.
Music happened, food worked out,
song worked out.
As far as I can remember.
I mean, for me, it would be like,
if I ended up arguing
with someone in class,
I couldn't come up with a comeback.
Then I would think about it later,
like, "I could have said this.
I could have said that."
It started in school.
And...
Earlier, we didn't get the lyrics.
We didn't have the internet.
So, if we heard a song,
we would write down the lyrics.
That we would hear a song.
So, we would write down the lyrics first
and then memorize them,
perform it at school and become cool.
That's how it started.
So, when I went to Chandigarh...
-From where did you go to Chandigarh?
-I went from Delhi to Chandigarh.
I was admitted to Punjab Engineering
College, in civil engineering.
And there...
something beautiful was happening.
And we were thinking,
"What kind of music are we making
compared to the kind of music
that they were making?
Why can't we make music like that?
Like, even now,
I get goosebumps thinking about it.
That, "Oh, my God."
When I heard Rishi Rich's "Dance With You"
the first time, with Jay Sean,
I didn't know he was one of our guys.
So, I used to go
to our college's computer lab
with the sole purpose
of downloading music.
There were torrents,
we downloaded songs from Limewire.
Passion kept increasing.
I downloaded a mixing software,
made beats on it,
and wrote.
And once, I was playing basketball,
and while playing...
Is there software available,
where I can...
Where you get a lot of samples.
I mean, you feel bad as a purist, but...
Arrange three or four of them,
and a beat creates itself.
Something that is your own.
Nonsense. I mean, for me...
I love "nonsense".
And I keep saying it,
that in the coming years, I think...
Maybe five years down the line
non-AI songs will be very expensive.
That singer sang with his real voice.
A lot, but technology has made it so easy
to become a recording artist.
But live music has its place.
It can be your voice.
It can be a moment for them.
It can be an audio-visual experience
for them.
You're singing.
It will grow immensely.
Okay, and then?
I met people.
Back then, the music would reach you,
but the personalities would not.
So, I met his manager.
So he said he had heard one of my raps.
He asked, "Did you do this?"
I said, "Yes."
He asked, "Where are you from?
"Are you from Canada or something?"
I said, "No, I'm from here."
I didn't even have a passport.
But he was like,
"This is a guy who makes music."
I said, "I know him.
He makes insane music."
At the time,
I was still doing my job. I...
Where?
I...
How did you reach Himachal, bro?
From Chandigarh to Himachal?
Bro, I...
I took the CAT exam,
got a good percentile.
But I got a government job.
Then, I joined as an SDO in BBMB,
Bhakra Beas Management Board.
They created electricity.
I didn't have anything else then.
So, I had to do a regular job.
So I was shuffling between that job and...
And that's when I knew that...
"Bro, no one what doing what I did.
I mean, I am killing it!"
And at that time,
we didn't have rappers in India.
And the confidence was such
that it was just us, nobody else existed.
And that...
And that borderline feels right,
but borderline can be bad, too.
Yes.
-After that?
-After that, we parted ways in 2011.
And in 2011, I found out
that I needed to learn how to make music.
Which went bonkers in Delhi.
People went insane, so...
"This Saturday Saturday is your song?"
They said, "We want this song."
I was like, "Take it."
They said, "You come to Bombay."
Now, take a look at my courage.
I said, "If you want the song,
you come to Chandigarh."
Then one after another...
Did they come to Chandigarh
-or did you go? They came?
-They came.
-Yeah.
-Yeah, he came.
And then it blew up, then...
It was cool.
Yesterday, I bought speakers.
The ones where you can hear
my final output,
I mix on those speakers, 12,000 rupees.
Why do you want to do it?
I want to become Badshah.
It's very difficult.
Same answer? "Very difficult"?
No, I mean, why do you wanna be Badshah?
If I tell you, stop you, scold you,
that, "You don't do this."
And you go and do it again tomorrow...
It will take time.
You know what that depends on?
You'll make music
when you have an audience,
and still make music
even when you don't have one.
Yes...
Otherwise, it's easy to give up.
I had only one plan in life.
I never had a plan B.
Even if that didn't happen,
I don't know, I mean...
That, "I have to do this."
But for me...
You start off very superficially.
You don't even know where in the film...
The mark is there.
You don't even know where the camera is.
"It's only acting.
I can't even think of anything else."
It was not that.
"Where is the light coming from?
Where is the camera?"
"Okay, so these roles, I cannot do it."
Once you are married, you can't, you know.
Gurdas Maan sir had said something to me.
I didn't understand it then but I do now.
That your work does not change.
But people's perceptions change.
That phenomenon,
how does it happen, why does it happen...
I was still in school.
He has been singing for 22 years.
I mean, you know, after a certain age,
an artist or a creative develops an ego.
Like, "No, it used to be like this.
Back in my day, it was like that.
This is how it is."
You don't have to
move along with the times.
You have to move ahead of the times.
What did you say?
No, what was that word?
-No, leave that.
-At least tell me the word.
But first, you tell me the word.
Okay, duopoly.
He's off on a tangent.
If he asked me, I would have taken
ten hours to answer him.
Petty little things.
Ask her as well.
Oh, God, I have to answer now.
What's up, guys?
Tell me what's happening...
Which girl are you dating today?
-What do you mean "today"?
-Nowadays...
In fact, recently, a lot of people...
In general, I have distanced
a lot of people from my life.
Even the slightest...
Even the slightest answerability
or even the slightest time-division...
A 20-year-old wanna-be singer,
what would you tell them?
Even if your story is exactly the same
as someone else.
But if I say
that I need to relieve myself,
in my own way.
That's the stupidest thing.
Bro?
-Me?
-Yes.
What else can be done
to leverage the brand?
Sector as in?
Sector, as in...
Like, health, wellness.
Sorry, I'm being greedy. Last question.
How long does it take, normally...
to know if it is a good business
or a bad one?
-How long? A year?
-A year or two.
One and two maybe...
Like, a foreigner is coming in
and investing in Company X.
Subtitles by Clockwork Captions